# EllipticFourierDescriptor
Python implementation and interpretation of "Elliptic Fourier Features of a Closed Contour" with enhanced start point and rotation normalization methods.

# 1 Introduction
Python implementation and interpretation of "Elliptic Fourier Features of a Closed Contour" with enhanced start point and rotation normalization methods.
In the code, the point having the maimum distance from the centroid is selected as the start point and the rotation is normalized by aligning the start point with horizontal axis of the coordiante system

# 2 Dependency and installation
The code only depends on numpy, thus any python environment having numpy installed is feasible to run the code.
Download the file "EllipticFourier.py" and copy the file to your working direction.

# 3 Usage
Given a closed contour of a shape, generated by e.g. OpenCV, this package can fit a Fourier series approximating the shape of the contour.

# 4 References
1. Frank P Kuhl, Charles R Giardina, Elliptic Fourier features of a closed contour, Computer Graphics and Image Processing, Volume 18, Issue 3, 1982, Pages 236-258. https://doi.org/10.1016/0146-664X(82)90034-X
2. Burger, W., Burge, M.J. (2013). Fourier Shape Descriptors. In: Principles of Digital Image Processing. Undergraduate Topics in Computer Science. Springer, London. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-84882-919-0_6
3. pyefd: Python implementation of "Elliptic Fourier Features of a Closed Contour". https://github.com/hbldh/pyefd

# 5 Implementation details
Implementation detials were depicted in the file ["EllipticFourierDescriptor.pdf"](EllipticFourierDescriptor.pdf).